---
zettelId: "23g"
title: "How to have better performance review meetings as a leader"
description: "Separate Evaluation Feedback from Coaching & Appreciation Feedback In Performance Reviews"
tags:
  - how-to-review-performance
  - feedback-handbook
date: 2021-11-27
updateDate: 2023-09-18
external: false
---

Regular performance reviews are evaluating meetings. We evaluate the previous year and give feedback to each other. These meetings often happen in one sitting. We discuss the previous year, agree on the compensation, and decide on the next year's expectations and action items. These meetings are hard to get right. Because we usually mix up an evaluation with coaching and appreciation. While the meeting's purpose and the employee's expectation is evaluation, they get all three at the same time. When the three of them are mixed up, it's difficult to extract any one of them from the mixture. So, we need to separate them to provide the best value to the employee. First, have the evaluation feedback and evaluate the previous year. Then, after a couple of days (usually 2-3 is enough), have a coaching and appreciation session as a follow-up. They will have time to consume the evaluation feedback and be able to ask questions. On the other hand, you make sure that the evaluation is received and handled well and that your appreciation and coaching can have the impact you wanted to have in the first place.

---

- **Previous Note:** [23f: Just say what you are going to say while giving a damn](/notes/23f/);
- **Next Note:** [24: Strong teams are motivated by goals](/notes/24/);
- **Connections:**
  - [27A](/notes/27a/);
  - [35](/notes/35/);
  - [33](/notes/33/);
  - [3b1](/notes/3b1/);
  - [3](/notes/3/);
- **Source(s):** Thanks for The Feedback by Douglas Stone & Sheila Heen
- **Resourced:** [Three Types of Feedback](/three-types-of-feedback/);
