---
zettelId: "27b1"
title: "Impact of knowledge and beliefs on learning"
tags:
date: 2022-03-28
updateDate: 2023-09-20
---

When we grow experts in one area, it becomes more difficult to change our thoughts. It's easy to leave the learning zone. Once we form beliefs, it impacts how we learn from others. When we get feedback/input, we defend ourselves as they attack our beliefs. While people we lead try to express their thoughts, we—without realizing it—close ourselves to their suggestions and stop rethinking. It's easy to fall into this trap. Staying in the learning zone and being humble and open moves us forward. Instead of thinking like we're experts, we need to think about how to silence our inner dictator and open ourselves to others' thoughts to learn from them.

The knowledge we have impacts how we approach things. When we form beliefs, we are more closed to destroying these beliefs. We build walls around them.

---

- **Previous Note:** [27b: How to Learn New Things via Habit Stacking](/notes/27b/);
- **Next Note:** [27c: Environment is more important than we think in building new habits](/notes/27c/);
- **Connections:**
  - [8: Growing in the Career](/notes/8/);
  - [10a: Growing in IC track in Engineering](/notes/10a/);
  - [4a: On Being Curious](/notes/4a/);
  - [27a: Increasing awareness of the actions and behaviors](/notes/27a/);
  - [44: Understanding Differences in Opinions and Perspectives](/notes/44/);
  - [54: Creating Open Culture at Work](/notes/54/);
  - [40c: Learning How to Receive Feedback](/notes/40c/);
- **Source(s):** [Think Again by Adam Grant](/books/think-again-by-adam-grant-book-summary-review-and-notes/);
