---
title: "Team Decision Deployment Strategies"
zettelID: "3a"
tags:
  -
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2023-08-16
external: false
---

We make decisions to make the team work efficiently and in harmony. Sometimes these decisions come from the top of the hierarchy, and sometimes not. The team lead or manager takes responsibility for the implementation. However, most of the time, this process is not that easy. There are many factors involved in the implementation of the decision. And also, what kind of decision we’re gonna deploy is the major question.

The decision implementation strategies are similar to the software deployment strategies. It’s also the last step of every planning, design, and implementation, as the decision implementation. There are different strategies for software deployment.

In Canary Deployment, we deploy the new service in one instance and test it with production data. If the instance and the new version of the system are working as expected, we deploy to other instances. For deploying decisions, we implement the decision with only one person. If it works, we apply it to the whole team. These decisions can test one idea in the team. We assign one task to one person and see how the person handles the task. Or we tell the decision to only one person to test it and get feedback.

In Blue-Green Deployment, we deploy the new service as a separate environment, test it and move all traffic to the new one once everything is working as expected. While applying team decisions, we announce the decision and the change but do not directly implement it. Once the decision is accepted by the team, we make the change. This strategy is effective in restructuring the team or department. We test the idea in production by getting feedback from people and understanding if they want to work on a new strategy or not.

In Rolling Deployment, we deploy the new service in the same environment but in one instance. And if everything works as expected, we slowly update the instances one by one. In team decision deployment, it can be personal growth decisions. It’s easy to try out a new personal growth or development strategy with one person and see if it’s working or not. Once we understand that our approach is suitable and we get a better result, we can start applying it to other team members one by one.

In “Big-Bang Deployment,” we terminate one version and deploy the new version. This strategy is suitable for team or company restructurings. We change it by destroying everything and building all things from the ground up.

The team decision and software deployment strategies are very similar in nature. They both come from hard planning and design. Only the implementation differs. While implementing software, you work hands-on in writing the code. In decision implementation, you talk with people and explain why a decision is made and how it affects them. And the application of the decision is the last step, where we stop talking and start working with the new change.

---

- **Previous Note:** [3: Being a Team Manager and Manager's Job](/notes/3/);
- **Next Note:** [3b: Joining A Team As A New Manager](/notes/3b/);
