---
zettelId: "41b"
title: "How to discover creativity?"
tags:
  - personal-growth
  - mental-health
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2023-09-21
---

We can discover our hidden creativity instead of focusing on negativity and how incompetent we feel.

Set aside some time and go over the following to find out your creative sides:

1. **Success:** Think back and find out your talents and abilities. What are you good at? Think about your skills. Consider your previous accomplishments and achievements. What were they?
2. **Intrinsic qualities:** Who are you inside? What are your human qualities? Which qualities do you associate with yourself? Some ideas: driven, efficient, practical, respectful, analytical, ambitious, etc.
3. **Your esteemed self:** Think about another new person with the qualities you defined above. How would you talk with this person? Would you be impressed and have a lot of respect for this person? And think about how different you talk to yourself when you compare your talk with this person.
4. **Where is your creativity?** Take a look at 1 & 2 again and ask yourself: In where did you exercise creativity? How exactly were you creative at those times? What qualities inform and enhance your creativity? Think about a moment when you were in the flow.

---

- **Previous Note:** [41a: Difference between an amateur and a professional](/notes/41a/);
- **Next Note:** [41b1: Our minds are changeable; we can get rid of our inner critic](/notes/41b1/);
- **Related Note(s):**
  - [52a: Accepting one thing requires saying no to other things](/notes/52a/);
  - [Software World #17: Banish Your Inner Critic with Denise Jacobs](https://mediations.candost.blog/p/17-banish-your-inner-critic-with-638/);
- **Source(s):** [Banish Your Inner Critic by Denise Jacobs](https://innercriticbook.com/);
