---
zettelId: "44g"
title: "Persuading others requires accepting their arguments and building empathy"
tags:
date: 2022-04-15
updateDate: 2023-09-21
---

I've been on the side of pushing my arguments more and more. I always chose the most logical side (at least the one that looked most logical to me) and always looked for extra ideas to support my reasoning. I thought I could win debates if I stuck to the facts and counted one point after another. Yet, some things come with experience and age. My way was the wrong one to persuade people. I didn't learn it from this book, but this book strengthened my learning; it enhanced my perspective. When I accepted some of the arguments in discussions, I recognized that people become open to change. As I showed my openness to accept counterarguments, they also became less defensive.

We should change our perspective, see the other side's strongest argument, and acknowledge and give credit to build empathy. If we insist on our arguments and count reasons one after the other, we don't create a conversation; we enter prosecutor or preacher mode. When we acknowledge the other side's valid points, we present humility.

---

- **Previous Note:** [44f: Unclear WHYs create more relationship conflicts](/notes/44f/);
- **Next Note:** [44h: Present humility and ask questions to persuade others](/notes/44h/);
- **Connections:**
  - [19b: Consent-Based Decision Making](/notes/19b/);
  - [17i: How to Understand The Public Talk Feedback You Get](/notes/17i/);
  - [30a: Change is Inevitable](/notes/30a/);
**Source(s):** [Think Again by Adam Grant](/books/think-again-by-adam-grant-book-summary-review-and-notes/);
