---
zettelId: "46d"
title: "Doubts are rarely formed on experience"
tags:
  - personal-growth
  - experiences
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2023-09-21
---

> "Doubts are formed around concepts, ideas, beliefs, and rejections. They are very rarely formed on experience." — Andy, Headspace.

Most self-doubts are rooted in beliefs. We believe we won't be able to do anything. Even though we get signals that say we are good at what we'll do, convincing ourselves is difficult. Understanding doubts and their root cause help to find out they are not 100% real.

Our experiences are the real part of us. They are our past. But we don't retrospect enough and usually think about the future. Retrospecting and reflecting on our experiences are not difficult; with journaling and writing, they become easy.

Journaling helps to figure out what worked and what didn't. The experience log is the real reflection, and doing it daily makes this reflection more valuable. Because, in the end, we present ourselves as proof of our experience.

---

- **Previous Note:** [46c: Have regular career and relationships check-ups](/notes/46c/);
- **Next Note:** [46d1: Measuring self-worth comes from negative experiences](/notes/46d1/);
- **Connections:**
  - [41b: How to discover creativity?](/notes/41b/);
  - [2b: How to get rid of distractions in your head while you write](/notes/2b/);
  - [27a: Increasing awareness of the actions and behaviors](/notes/27a/);
  - [4a: On Being Curious](/notes/4a/);
  - [25: Consistent writing brings success](/notes/25/);
  - [1: Why do we bother to write?](/notes/1/);
- **Source(s):** Headspace Meditation App
