---
zettelId: "52d"
title: "Genghis Khan on Friendship"
tags:
  - importance-of-friendship
  - building-relationships
  - building-trust
date: 2022-12-19
updateDate: 2023-06-26
---

The interesting side of Genghis Khan is how he destroys his family and tribe relationships. In his childhood, building relationships based on trust and choice was more important than having kinship. He killed his own brother because his brother treated him unfairly. He took Temüjin's (Genghis Khan's birth name) prey for himself just because he was an elder and the leader of the family. This was the last drop for Temüjin to kill him after a lot of unfairness and rivalry between them. The importance of companionship was great to him, and he trusted his friend (blood friend) and exchanged gifts, which was very rare at that time. That made me think about my kins and friends. Friendships are by choice; they are not driven by blood relations. That's why they are often stronger. For me, my friendships were always stronger than my blood relationship. That was my choice; it's not forced upon me. That form of love is always more robust, and we can also see the results in betrayals: it's often more psychologically devastating to have a friend betrayal than a family member betrayal. We often forgive family members but rarely show forgiveness to friends.

---

- **Previous Note:** [52c: The Last Person on Earth](/notes/52c/);
- **Next Note:** [52e: Pass your words from three doors before you speak](/notes/52e/);
- **Connections:**
  - [46: Coaching Yourself](/notes/46/);
  - [44: Understanding Differences in Opinions and Perspectives](/notes/44/);
  - [33: Elevating Others Around You](/notes/33/);
  - [20: Influencing Others](/notes/20/);
- **Source(s):** [Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World by Jack Weatherford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genghis_Khan_and_the_Making_of_the_Modern_World);
