---
zettelId: "63"
title: "How cultures are shaped in the world"
description: "The impact of modernization and colonization on Kenya"
tags:
  - culture
date: 2023-02-15
updateDate: 2023-08-08
---

It seems like the British had a devastating impact on Kenya.

"Modernization" shows its evil face in many places. When people are forced, preached, evangelized, and convinced that their culture is not good and that they have to change, they go over dramatic problems—many of these problems last years, if not centuries.

Kenya was a culture-rich country and still is, and Maathai was born into a family where she was the biggest girl of the second wife. The culture allowed men to take multiple wives. Back then, it's understandable that it was preferred because people needed a crowd to survive. They needed people to work in the fields. The man was responsible for the whole family, including all wives and children. The culture forced the man to take care of them. If the man didn't care about his family, he would be ostracized. So, the folk ensured that the patriarchy was beneficial to men and provided safety to women.

How Maathai perceives her childhood and culture is impressive. It's often impossible to see others through their lenses in life, but she explains everything well with empathy. With empathy and truthfulness, she lies the environment in front of our eyes as it is. She enables us to see clearly.

---

- **Previous Note:** [62a: Resilience comes from recovery](/notes/62a/);
- **Next Note:** [64: Why Inspectional Reading?](/notes/64/);
- **Related Note(s):**
  - [27: Developing Habits](/notes/27/);
  - [52: Personal Values](/notes/52/);
- **Source(s):** Unbowed by Wangari Maathai
