---
title: "Why do we bother to write?"
zettelId: "1"
tags:
  - writing-handbook
  - writing
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2025-01-13
---

There are many reasons why we must write:

- Writing is thinking. It shapes thoughts. We _learn_ fresh ideas when we write them. Whatever we read, watch, and listen to is not ours. We internalize them by writing them in complete sentences.
- Writing is remembering. The thoughts that only stay in our minds abandon us quickly. There is a Turkish saying, “Expression flies; writing stays.” When something is written, it's permanent.
- Writing frees the mind from clutter and opens new places for fresh ideas. Whatever we write, we don't have to think about it anymore. It's written, shaped, and out of our minds. We now have more room for new thoughts.
- Writing is creating. We make connections between ideas when we start writing more and more. Creating a network of thoughts not only helps us reflect on our thoughts but also improves our thought processes. We generate new ideas when we connect written ideas.
- Writing is sharing. A written idea is not always individual. We share it with others, get feedback, and open more discussions about the topics we write about. We create communities, enhance the knowledge of the community and move forward.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [On writing’s impact on choosing a topic for public speaking](/notes/17a/).
  - [Writing brings the habits from automatic brain to awareness](/notes/27a/).
  - [The writing has to reach to audience at some point without falling into editing trap](/notes/39/).
  - [A strategy to unlocking the writer’s block](/notes/2c/).
  - [I commit to writing](/notes/25d/).
- **Resourced:**
  - [How to Stop Endless Discussions](/how-to-stop-endless-discussions/);
  - [Why is Writing Important?](/why-is-writing-important/);
