---
zettelId: "16b"
title: "Clarify the expected outcome and the action it requires in written form to get it out of your mind"
tags:
  - time-management
updateDate: 2023-07-03
date: 2021-11-29
---

When we have tasks on our minds, or any kind of stuff that keeps our mind busy, we usually keep thinking about them without taking action. We create anxiety because we don't do this stuff. They just occupy a place in our minds constantly.

When we write them down, we stop thinking about them. Because we trust ourselves that we will take care of it, we don't need to contemplate it anymore.

That's what typically happens when we procrastinate or forget to write down. The important thing is that we need to keep them out of our minds to relax and get things done at the same time.

We need to clarify to get it done. When we manage projects, we split everything into small chunks, especially in scrum. However, we fail to follow a similar strategy when we are at upper levels in our careers or managing projects vertically and horizontally. Especially managing time becomes difficult if we don't clarify tasks. We start excusing ourselves by saying, “I'm busy.” while the reality lacks clarity: we don't define what “done” means (outcome) and what it looks like (action).

When both are written down in tasks, it is usually easy to take care of them. Once we know what we will do and the expected outcome, we can take the task on time and finish it properly.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [25: Consistent writing brings success](/notes/25/);
  - [27a: Increasing awareness of the actions and behaviors](/notes/27a/);
  - [46: Coaching Yourself](/notes/46/);
- **Source(s):** Getting Things Done by David Allen
