---
zettelId: "20k"
title: "More followers make the idea correct"
tags:
  - automatic-human-behavior
updateDate: 2025-01-22T06:35:01.000Z
date: 2024-12-26T15:35:01.000Z
---

Initiators use the social proof principle to make their ideas work, even when the idea is incorrect. Leaders in companies or political parties convince a group of people first about an idea. [Using that group, they show others that they have support, believers, or what have you](/notes/19f/). More people start believing in the idea because they think it’s confirmed by just looking at the amount of supporters. The same principle applies to audience management, like adding laughs to sitcom shows. It convinces us that the show is funny. The same is true in social media: the more followers a person has, the more followers they attract.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [Doing public speaking](/notes/17/) works for social proof as it shows that people accept you as a speaker and authority on the topic.
  - Especially [tribal thinking](/notes/19f/) has a significant impact on this type of influence.
  - This influence method can help [organizations move faster](/notes/19c/) as the social proof will make people believe an idea (or decision) is correct. However, we need to be careful.
  - While [facilitating meetings](/notes/77/), try to find initiators and get their buy-in on the topic you’re facilitating.
  - As a leader, try to find the initial supporters of your idea and use them [to create the image](/notes/87/) of the right decision when you want to convince people.
