---
zettelId: "30b3"
title: "The Case of Happiness"
tags:
  - bias
  - survivorship-bias
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2023-09-21
---

The media likes to show extraordinary people who have achieved great things. Because these people create attention. Humans are interested in different things than themselves, and the press uses the exceptional to keep the interest high.

The misperception created by the media causes many mental problems. The extraordinary people we see in the media do unusual things because they usually accept themselves as average or worse at what they do. They live the reality: most things in life are either average or suck. The media blurs this reality. It also creates a fake one by saying that everyone can achieve everything. The mental burden of seeing these people and being pumped with 'you are special' speeches leads us to think that we also must be extraordinary while we're not. Once we accept that we are such (or average), we can leverage the appreciation of the essential things in life. This mindset lets us accomplish what we want to achieve without having self-criticism or judgment. It helps us focus on the moment more instead of blaming our past or creating dreams that will never happen.

[“When you focus on the past, that’s your ego.” Giannis Antetokounmpo Life Lessons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qLchg4xkOY)

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [46: Coaching Yourself](/notes/46/);
  - [41b: How to discover creativity?](/notes/41b/);
  - [37: Setting Organizational Goals and Processes](/notes/37/);
  - [29: Uncertainty is needed to stay open-minded](/notes/29/);
- **Source(s):** [The Subtle Art of Not Giving A Fuck by Mark Manson](/books/the-subtle-art-of-not-giving-a-fuck-by-mark-manson-book-summary-review-and-notes/);
