---
zettelId: "30c"
title: "Choose good values and good metrics in life"
tags:
  - goals
date: 2021-11-28
updateDate: 2023-09-21
---

Everyone has values and metrics that define their perspective and perception of life. They also describe the problems they face. In each situation, they interpret the events and either accept them as a problem or not. When they don't take the "bad" event as a problem, they just don't give a fuck about it. It's also possible that they see these things as good. It's really a half-glass full or half-glass empty situation. Their personal values and the measures they use to evaluate these things define how they see the glass. Some good metrics yield good results; some bad ones yield poor results.

The crucial part is that when they want happiness in life, they need to be cautious about which metrics they use to measure happiness and which values they are looking for. For example, if their value is honesty and they count the number of lies, telling the truth makes them feel satisfied. However, if they value success by measuring how they are doing compared to others ([comparing with people who are doing extraordinary things](/notes/30b3/)), they will always feel unsatisfied and unhappy.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [44: Understanding Differences in Opinions and Perspectives](/notes/44/);
  - [44b: We attribute failure differently](/notes/44b/);
  - [52: Personal Values](/notes/52/);
  - [30b3: The Case of Happiness](/notes/30b3/);
- **Source(s):** [The Subtle Art of Not Giving A Fuck by Mark Manson](/books/the-subtle-art-of-not-giving-a-fuck-by-mark-manson-book-summary-review-and-notes/);
