---
title: "Using Delegation Checklist"
zettelId: "3c3a"
tags:
  - how-to-delegate
  - management-handbook_delegation
date: 2023-11-10
updateDate: 2023-11-10
---

When I try to delegate a job to people, I mostly consider their skills, where they want to go, the timeline of the work, the risk of the person failing, and how mature I am at that piece of work so I can help the person. I know there are more systematic ways and more things to consider. I mostly leaned on my biases in these delegation decisions and failed. I researched and asked my mentor and a few other leaders around me. Most of the time, the result was what I was already doing. I couldn't find any systematic way that can apply to my position as an engineering manager. Whenever my quick internet research doesn't give satisfying answers, I turn to my small library. This time, I found a great set of questions (in Management 3.0 book) to use as a framework. Answering these questions before delegating a piece of work should eliminate all my biases and give me the right mindset.

> 1. Is the risk factor of delegating this work adequately addressed?
> 2. Do the people have the right empowerment skills and discipline?
> 3. Have you considered and selected the right level of authority?
> 4. Have you considered the question of delegating to individuals or teams?
> 5. Is what you are delegating a discrete chunk of work?
> 6. Do the people have the skills to do this particular kind of work?
> 7. Do the people have the right format for the work products to use?
> 8. Do the people have the tools necessary to be successful?
> 9. Do the people know what the results should look like?
> 10. Did you set the boundary conditions for the work (for example, budget, time, resources, and quality)?
> 11. Do the people know when the work is due?
> 12. Do the people know what progress looks like?
> 13. Do the people know how often to report to you on progress (adhering to interim milestones)?
> 14. Is someone available (you or another person) to coach or mentor the people in case they need help?

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [12: Engineer Autonomy](/notes/12/);
  - [15: What should you do when your manager delegates a task to you](/notes/15/);
  - [19: Decision-Making Strategies](/notes/19/);
  - [20: Influencing Others](/notes/20/);
  - [31: Accountability and Learning Culture in Organizations](/notes/31/);
  - [53: Guiding Direct Reports as Manager](/notes/53/);
  - [61: What to delegate?](/notes/61/);
- **Source(s):** Management 3.0 Book by Jurgen Appelo
