---
zettelId: "44g3"
title: "Driving Empathy with our commonality as humans"
tags:
  - how-to-build-mindfulness
  - how-to-build-friendship
  - how-to-form-a-community
date: 2025-08-17T16:00:00.000Z
updateDate: 2025-08-17T16:00:00.000Z
---

Our common humanity properties are related to mind, feeling, and thinking. It appears that we distinguish ourselves from other beings through the way we use our minds to direct our feelings and thoughts, in various ways—whether to understand our surroundings or interpret our internal struggles. Ultimately, **we seek happiness and strive to avoid pain**. _All humans_ have this same drive. That drive looks different for people, but ultimately, it’s the same. Whether it is imagination or real things that our minds create, we all seek happiness. That’s how we can feel empathy for anyone. We need to share a common purpose to feel a [sense of belonging](/notes/20l/) and be part of a community. To the Dalai Lama, that common purpose appears to be seeking happiness and avoiding pain.

Not the empathy part, but the rest looks/sounds very close to stoicism; I think they have a lot in common.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [To feel the whole world as part of our group](/notes/20l/), thinking that we all seek happiness and try to avoid pain, helps.
  - [Most of the stories behind why people behave in a certain way](/notes/41b2/) end up in either seeking happiness or avoiding pain.
  - [Selfish goals](/notes/30c1/) are unattainable. The only way to get rid of them is to approach others with empathy.
- **Source(s):** The Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith
