---
zettelId: "52c"
title: "The Last Person on Earth"
tags:
  - what-consistency-means
  - habits-that-dont-die
date: 2022-12-14
updateDate: 2023-06-26
---

Understanding our values is one thing; building personality around them is another. We do something every day. Sometimes, they differ, and sometimes, they are part of a routine. We're sometimes lost; we don't know where we're headed. In these situations, it's a good practice to ask ourselves, "If we were the last person on earth, would we still do what we do?" If what we do is aligned with our values, then the answer *should be* a big yes. If not, there will be questions in mind. The question is intentionally bold and provoking. When our job is tied to other people, the answer automatically becomes, "There is no purpose of my job if I'm the last person." Yet the idea is not about that; it's about **you doing that work, not giving up, and still looking for opportunities to continue on that path.** If it's playing basketball is your thing, would you play it even if there is no one around you? If you're writing, would you keep writing even if you know nobody will ever read anything you write? That's the notion of learning ourselves and how our actions are tied to our values.

---

- **Previous Note:** [52b: Accepting Death Destroys Entitlement](/notes/52b/);
- **Next Note:** [52d: Genghis Khan on Friendship](/notes/52d/);
**Related Note(s):**
  - [1: Why do we bother to write?](/notes/1/);
  - [8: Growing in the Career](/notes/8/);
  - [14: Experiences are like compound interest on money](/notes/14/);
  - [25: Consistent writing brings success](/notes/25/);
  - [27: Developing Habits](/notes/27/);
  - [28: Mental Health for Professionals](/notes/28/);
  - [41: Characteristics of Creative Work](/notes/41/);
  - [46: Coaching Yourself](/notes/46/);
- **Source(s):** [The War of Art by Steven Pressfield](https://stevenpressfield.com/books/the-war-of-art/);
