---
zettelId: "62a"
title: "Resilience comes from recovery"
description: "Understanding how we can increase our resiliency"
tags:
 - why-recharging-matters
 - how-to-build-resilience
 - how-best-performers-become-the-best
 - mental-health
date: 2023-05-21
updateDate: 2023-08-10
---

Resilience comes with recovery, not endurance. You won't build resilience when you push for one more time if you're already exhausted. Your productivity will be depleted. Resilience comes from recharge and recovery. Professional athletes (like LeBron James) spend extra time on recovery, and the best ones consider it part of their training. Recharge doesn't mean resting. If you dive into politics on your phone while lying down on your bed, you're not recovering. You need to spend time with friends (not talking about work), meditate, watch a movie, or do other activities you enjoy in your life. That's how you build resilience, by keeping your energy level in control so you can push more exactly when needed. Otherwise, you burn out.

We can see the same in weightlifting. If you need to do three sets of ten repetitions, you must choose a weight that you can lift thirty times with a break in between. You can't lift it without a break. Also, choosing a weight is important too. If you add heavier weight, you probably can only lift it ten to fifteen times, not thirty. You need to build the muscles in time to increase your weight.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [8: Growing in the Career](/notes/8/);
  - [11: How to move to the next level](/notes/11/);
  - [28: Mental Health for Professionals](/notes/28/);
  - [41: Characteristics of Creative Work](/notes/41/);
  - [52: Personal Values](/notes/52/);
  - [65: Learning and Understanding](/notes/65/);
- **Source(s):** [Resilience is about how you recharge, not how you endure](https://hbr.org/2016/06/resilience-is-about-how-you-recharge-not-how-you-endure) & Calm App's Lessons: Train Your Mind - Vol. II with LeBron James
