---
zettelId: "66i"
title: "Build The Right Culture First Before RFCs"
date: 2023-08-06
updateDate: 2023-08-06
---


The whole RFC process requires a blameless and trustful environment. If the organization operates with bad politics and secrecy, forget about RFCs. If an engineer doesn't trust others and doesn't believe people have good intentions, why would they seek feedback? Even if they did, would they accept feedback? I don't think so.

Another cultural challenge for RFCs is the stage of the organization. If the product is pivoting or an engineering paradigm shift is going on, RFCs cannot survive. Especially while trying to find product-market fit and runway budget is limited, RFCs are not the right strategy.

Engineering paradigm shifts depend on the organization's maturity. If the organization is mature enough, RFCs are a great way to shift the engineering paradigm. However, it won't work in an immature organization where there are long discussions and fights everywhere.

Get your culture right, and people will naturally bring the RFC process by themselves. Use RFCs to create a feedback culture and enhance your engineering strength and stamina. It's one of the best ways to break silos and build a healthy engineering organization that communicates and collaborates.

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [54: Creating Open Culture at Work](/notes/54/);
  - [44c: Confrontation brings honesty](/notes/44c/);
  - [44d: Without conflict, there can be no trust](/notes/44d/);
  - [3: Being a Team Manager and Manager's Job](/notes/3/);
  - [31: Accountability and Learning Culture in Organizations](/notes/31/);
  - [36: Open Feedback Culture](/notes/36/);
- **Resourced:** [How and Why RFCs Fail](/how-and-why-rfcs-fail/);
