---
zettelId: "74"
title: "Integrating Deep Work into Manager’s Life"
tags:
  - time-management
  - productivity
  - management-handbook
  - how-to-manage-yourself
date: 2024-07-26T15:57:08.337Z
updateDate: 2024-10-27T15:57:08.337Z
---

In a manager’s life, the manager tries to immense themselves in deep work but fail to do so and end up in shallow work due to many meetings they can’t avoid. In everything they do, they try restoring energy that was depleted in sudden bursts of shallow but demanding work. That’s, at best, inefficient and ineffective.

They struggle (at least I) to find a way to organize their workload and time but they are often not the owner of their schedules. The nature of the work demands adapting to other people’s schedules. Hence, they need to be extra mindful.

:::note[Note for myself as of 2024-07-26]
I keep thinking about what I want from this world or my life. Yet, I also ponder if that’s even necessary.
If there is an activity where I can feel satisfied, immense in deep work, work on a better schedule (than many meetings every day), and don’t commute, it becomes easier to do deep work and not count myself as busy. Then the rest can be a real rest and I can also have idle time that I replenish my energy. Instead of a curse, I can embrace and enjoy busyness and even keep myself very active in it.
:::

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [3: Management Craft](/notes/3/);
  - [16a: The Meetings of a Manager](/notes/16a/);
  - [16b: Clarify the expected outcome and the action it requires in written form to get it out of your mind](/notes/16b/);
  - [Csikszentmihalyi, Newport, and Pressfield on Creativity, Time and Deep Walks in Remote Work](/csikszentmihalyi-newport-and-pressfield-on-creativity-time-and-deep-walks-in-remote-work/);
  - [62: Energy Management at Work](/notes/62/);
