---
zettelId: "8j"
title: "Using the Promotion Process to Grow as a Manager"
tags:
  - professional-growth
date: 2023-12-24
updateDate: 2023-12-24
---

Managers have to shape their skills according to the team's needs and the constraints under which they operate. As each team has its unique context, it's quite challenging to put all managers into one career path. Moreover, many organizations lack clarity and direction about career development for managers. That's why applying for promotion is one of the guaranteed ways to get feedback. While preparing for promotion, detach yourself from the result of the process. The process can be successful or not; it doesn't matter. If you don't get the title, you'll learn what you are missing clearly. If you get the promotion, then you know you did the right thing. If you get a negative result, don't get frustrated; use it to learn more about what's needed for the next step. Focus on your career growth over the long run.

---

- **Previous Note:** [8i: Don't stop asking questions](/notes/8i/);
- **Next Note:** [9: Growing does not always mean being an expert](/notes/9/);
- **Related Note(s):**
  - [3: Being a Team Manager and Manager's Job](/notes/3/);
  - [5: Managing Promotions](/notes/5);
  - [11: How to move to the next level](/notes/11/);
  - [40c: Learning How to Receive Feedback](/notes/40c/);
  - [41b1: Our minds are changeable; we can get rid of our inner critic](/notes/41b1/);
  - [46b: Impact of Imposter Syndrome](/notes/46b/);
  - [46c: Have regular career and relationships check-ups](/notes/46c/);
  - [46d1: Measuring self-worth comes from negative experiences](/notes/46d1/);
  - [68: Thinking Retrospectively Helps to Correct The Course](/notes/68/);
