---
zettelId: "92a"
title: "Fundamentals of increasing the quantity of work"
tags:
  - management-handbook_increasing-team-performance
  - organizational-leadership_increasing-productivity
date: 2025-08-17T16:00:00.000Z
updateDate: 2025-08-17T16:00:00.000Z
---

An increase in the amount of outcome/output comes from:

- **Increase in dexterity**: Once a person learns how to do a job, they increase the quantity of output. Doing the same thing over and over again, [understanding its characteristics](/notes/53e/) and adjusting to it takes time, but helps produce a lot more than others.
- **Reducing context switching**: When the context changes, the person’s mind doesn’t go to it directly. It takes time to adapt to the new work, [become focused](/notes/74/), and establish a new rhythm. This is irrelevant to dexterity. Sole changing context is already reducing the quantity.
- **Enable one person to accomplish many tasks using machines and automation**: Machines undoubtedly increase the quantity. However, automation innovation and machines often stem from people who are doing the job and their laziness. When a person knows what they are doing, they will try to invent new ways to do less work. This laziness leads to innovation. #leadership (increase productivity, improve the outcomes/output) #investment (look at the CEO if they know what they are doing)

---

- **Related Note(s):**
  - [Invest in growing your employees](/notes/33a/) so their dexterity increases.
  - [Measure the productivity](/notes/82/) to make constant improvements.
- **Source(s):** The Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith
